---
title: "Quantum Experience"
tags: [theory, quantum, q, informative]
---

### Introduction
What is the quantum theory? As said by [quantumexperience](https://quantumexperience.ng.bluemix.net/) official site by IBM, it's _an elegant mathematical theory able to explain the counterintuitive behavior of subatomic particles, most notably the phenomenon of entanglement_. In the late twentieth century it was discovered that quantum theory applies not only to atoms and molecules, but to bits and logic operations in a computer. This realization has been bringing about a revolution in the science and technology of information processing: I decided to write a post to better explain, from a physics-agnostic computer scientist's point of view XD, what I understood about quantum until now and why I think it's an amazing field for computer science.

#### Preamble
To better understand how a quantum PC works - better, _how it is_ possible to use quantum events to implement a sort of _improved binary logic_ - I think you first need to know why a quantum computer could be useful - better, what kind of problem can be solved by a quantum computer. Ok, the answer is: anything that can be solved by a normal computer. This is because quantum computer is not a super computer different. A qubit (pronounced “cue-bit” and short for quantum bit) is the physical carrier of quantum information. It is the quantum version of a bit, and its quantum state can take values of \|0⟩, \|1⟩ or both at once, which is a phenomenon known as superposition.