---
title: "Quantum Experience"
tags: [theory, quantum, q, informative]
---

### Introduction
What is the quantum theory? As said by [quantumexperience](https://quantumexperience.ng.bluemix.net/) official site by IBM, it's _an elegant mathematical theory able to explain the counterintuitive behavior of subatomic particles, most notably the phenomenon of entanglement_. In the late twentieth century it was discovered that quantum theory applies not only to atoms and molecules, but to bits and logic operations in a computer. This realization has been bringing about a revolution in the science and technology of information processing: I decided to write a post to better explain, from a physics-agnostic computer scientist's point of view XD, __what I understood__ - and it is certainly wrong - about Q until now and why I think it's an amazing field for computer science.

#### Preamble
To better understand how a quantum PC works - better, _how it is_ possible to use quantum events to implement a sort of _improved binary logic_ - I think you first need to know why a quantum computer could be useful - better, what kind of problem can be solved by a quantum computer. Ok, the answer is: anything that can be solved by a normal computer. This is because quantum computer doesn't solve different problems in a _different_ way with respect to a normal computer: it simply use some tricky universe misteries to do solve them more efficiently. 

A calculation process is essentially a physical process that is performed on a machine whose operation obeys certain physical laws. The classical theory of computation is based on an abstract model of universal machine (the Universal Turing Machine) that works according to a set of rules and principles enunciated in 1936 by Alan Turing and elaborated later by John von Neumann in the 40s. These principles have remained essentially unchanged since then, despite the enormous technological advances that today allow to produce far more powerful devices than those that could be achieved in the first half of the twentieth century. The tacit assumption underlying these principles is that a Turing machine idealizes a mechanical computational device (with a potentially infinite memory) that obeys the laws of classical physics.

The idea of creating a model of computation as an isolated quantum system began to appear at the beginning of the eighties, when P. Benioff, starting from considerations previously elaborated by C. Bennet, defined the reversible Turing Machine: a computation can always be performed in such a way as to return to the initial state by retracing the various computation steps backwards.

#### 